---
layout: post
title: "Git Branches"
description: "Some useful tips about Git branch"
category: version control
tags: [Git]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

###Branch Names

1. Local branch has a simple name such as 'master'.

   This name is used as the default branch name if you didn't specify a particular name when you do <code>git init</code>.

2. Remote branches have names such as 'origin/master'.

   'origin' is the remote repo name.

3. Names 'origin' and 'master' don't have any special meanings, they are merely default names given by Git.

###Local Branch

1. Local branches are branches residing on your local dev box, you can have multiple branches on one box doing separate jobs.

   <pre>e.g, you can have one branch 'master' to keep track with the remote branch, have 'bugfix' to fix bugs, and also have 'new-feature' to implement new features.</pre>

   Branching is fairly light-weight in Git because creating a new branch is merely creating a new reference to a commit.

2. Local branches can be used to track remote branches.

   When you create a new repo using <code>git clone</code>, git will set up a master branch for you and make it a tracking branch for the repo you cloned. And next time you do <code>git pull/fetch/checkout</code>, git will know which remote to talk to without explicitely told.

###Remote Branch

1. Remote branches are branches residing on remote boxes.

   Now that Git is a distributed version control system, every repo are of same weight, which means there is no central repo and sub repo. Remote branch is actually a relative concept. But in real life, we normally have a central server to serve as main repo though.
   
2. You can add a remote (server) using <code>git remote add</code> command.

3. <code>git fetch</code> does not merge the fetched branch with your local branch, to merge it, you have a call <code>git merge</code> after that.

4. <code>git fetch</code> will fetch the reference to the remote branch to your local, without any real editable files.
   
   To edit files, you have to use <code>git checkout</code> to checkout the code to a local branch(either existing or newly created).

<script src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/google/code-prettify/master/loader/run_prettify.js"></script>